.TH ZSTP91
.SH NAME:
zstp91 \- graphical interface to travel time tables using tau-splines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zstp91 < zst.cmd
.SH DESCRIPTION
zstp91 is a simple user interface to access the travel times for
a wide variety of seismic phases and display them in a selected 
time and distance window.
.br
User control is provided over the selection of phases.
.SS Running zstp91
zstp91 is run from a command file specifying the parameters for the 
phase control as well as the features of the distance-time window 
and frame.  The run sequence is
.br 
  zstp91 < zst.cmd
.br
where zst.cmd is a command file.
For example to produce plots for all available phases over the
span from 0 to 180 degrees for travel times up to 30 minutes, and a 
source depth of 200km.
.nf
.ta 2.0
     iasp91                 Model file
	200.	           <tt> depth
     1.  180.              <tt> delta min,max 
        2                  <tt> pen colour
     0.                    <tt> reduction slowness
     FR                    Frame: FR-full frame, NL-no labels
     5.0                   <fr> x-orig
     2.0                   <fr> y-orig
     3                     <fr> font choice
         0.00   180.00     <fr> Dmin, Dmax
        15.00              <fr> length of D-axis
         0.00    40.00     <fr> Trmin,Trmax
        25.00              <fr> length of T-axis
        20.00   10.000     <fr> Large Tic spacing D,T
         5.00    1.000     <fr> Small Tic spacing D,T
         0       0         <fr> # of dec. in label D,T
        0.4300   0.47500   <fr> character size text,title
     Delta  deg                                          X-txt
     Time  min                                           Y-txt
     iasp91   200 km source                              Title
.fi
.SS Phase specification in zstp91:
Groups of seismic phases can be selected via the keywords
used for ttimes91
The available keywords are:
.nf
P      gives P-up, P, Pdiff, PKP and PKiKP
P+     gives P-up, P, Pdiff, PKP, PKiKP, PcP, pP, pPdiff, pPKP, 
             pPKiKP, sP, sPdiff, sPKP, sPKiKP 
S      gives S-up, S, Sdiff, SKS
S+     gives S-up, S, Sdiff, SKS, sS, SSdiff, sSKS,
             pS, pSdiff, pSKS
basic  gives P+, S+ and ScP, SKP, PKKP, SKKP, PP and PKPPKP
all    gives all available phases
.fi   
.SH SEE ALSO
gtt91
.SH AUTHORS
B.L.N. Kennett,
Research School of Earth Sciences, Australian National University            
Canberra, Australia 
.br
using the travel time routines developed by:
.br
R. Buland,
National Earthquake Information Centre, U.S. Geological Survey
Golden, Colorado
